---
title:  "Mitigating Zero Training Loss in neural networks and effetcs"
layout: posts
mathjax: "true"
---

<p>Deep Neural Networks (DNN's) are powerful function approximators which could approximate interaction of variables in a manner never before.However Given a powerful enough or larger network than required we could memorize anything , literally anything. As show by this paper .... , neural networks are capable of memorizing random numbers. Most deep learning problems use gradient based optimization. However , every gradient optimization problem isnt a deep neural network problem. In Deep Learning , we train neural networks to learn patterns of a given problem rather than just find optimal parameters for a problem. Say in a cats/dog classifier , a image recognition algorithm learning to recognize dogs by the ears , face. The phenomenon of a DNN being a able to classify data outside the training data is called generalization. This is ideally evaluated by measuring how accurately a DNN performs on data outside training data (data its not seen during optimization). So its necessary the DNN will have to achieve a very low error on training data (very close to zero). But , the training and test error will have to very low. While there have been several techniques in past known as regularizers which have mitigated this effect well such as dropout , L2/L1 regularization and data augmentation. I would to elaborate on another regularizer which helps prevent zero training error. Its quite common for DNN's to be very large compared to the dataset (called overparameterization) , which at times allows it to attain zero training error. But , isnt zero training error good? Not so much since it could lead to very high confidence predictions which could be problemsome from a privacy perspective since it could typically allow users to reconstruct input data via black box attacks during inference (insert link). 
